Remove silent mode variable for spec v2 components (#121)
Financial-Times/origami: proposals/accepted/0000-remove-silent-mode.md

https://github.com/Financial-Times/origami/issues/6

However silent mode still exists for backward compatibility and the Origami Build Service, which turns silent mode off by setting the variable to return component CSS. This means we still have to explain what silent mode, along with the primary mixin, and it's sometimes introduced to new projects alongside primary mixin use.

## explanation

Drop the silent mode variable completely from [Origami spec v2](https://github.com/Financial-Times/origami-website/pull/273). Make the [primary mixin a must instead of a should](https://origami.ft.com/spec/v1/components/sass/#primary-mixin).

## work required

- Update the v2 component spec draft to make primary mixins a must instead of a should, remove the silent mode variable requirement entirely.
- Update the create-origami-component boilerplate.
- Search origami-website site and registry-ui to update any other documentation.
- Update Origami Build Tools to verify the existence of the primary mixin.

> - Update Origami Build Service to use the primary mixin instead of the silent mode variable.

Reviewer: The new version of the build service already does this 👍 
https://github.com/Financial-Times/origami-build-service/blob/66af1d9911a1d0acd03ce2ed4e51c3435ef43293/test/unit/lib/middleware/v3/createEntryFileSass.test.js#L32-L40

Author: If this proposal is accepted that's great! If not it should go back to using the silent mode variable as the spec does not require a primary mixin at present

> - Remove the silent mode variable from every component for its spec v2 major release, update its migration guide to recommend the primary mixin instead. All Origami maintained components have a primary mixin already but there may be instances of components which need to add one. At its simplest this involves wrapping all the component's Sass in a single mixin of the same name as the component.

Reviewer: Note: This is not required work to be compliant with the specification update but is work which will make origami components have a more cohesive implementation/documentation. We could park this part. The work which is required to be compliant with the specification update, would be to ensure all components do have a primary mixin. If we only added the primary mixin an did not remove the silent mode implementation from components (but did remove from the specification), that would not be a breaking change.

I'm not saying this is what we should do, I'm only saying there is a way to do this where we can park the breaking change aspect to a later date if we wanted to

Author: This is true 👍But, I think like you say here, we wouldn't get the benefit of more cohesive implementation/documentation until the next major cascade

Author: Proposed alternative update to reflect this: https://github.com/Financial-Times/origami/pull/121#discussion_r612297335

Note: the `mixin-exists` Sass function could be used to throw a helpful error in build tools / build service when the component is missing a primary mixin:
```scss
@if not mixin-exists('oComponentName') {
    @error 'Could not compile sass as o-component-name does not have a primary mixin. ' +
    'See the specification [... etc]';
}

> @include oComponentName();

Reviewer: This is really nice, the build service v3 should use this implementation

```

## alternatives

- Do nothing, continue to document and talk about this pattern alongside the primary mixins. It slows development down with confusion, encourages outputting all component CSS which is inefficient, and it is likely this will come up again if we move to make the most of Sass modules. On the other hand, it would mean one less step for the upcoming npm migration.

> - Do this but later. It would mean one less step for the upcoming npm migration, but another cascade to get teams aligned on later. As removing the silent mode variable is a small amount of work for Origami users, but getting everyone on board with a cascade is still tricky, I don't think this is a great alternative.

Author: ```suggestion
- Update the spec but keep exist silent mode variables in addition to the primary mixin. It would mean one less step for the upcoming npm migration, but another cascade would be required to realise the main benefit of reducing Origami implementation/documentation complexity. As removing the silent mode variable is a small amount of work for Origami users, but getting everyone on board with a cascade is still tricky, I don't think this is a great alternative.
```

@JakeChampion I've attempted to update this alternative to account for your point here: https://github.com/Financial-Times/origami/pull/121/files#r612288497

Reviewer: Having spoken with Lee about this, I would suggest we remove silent mode from the spec and upgrade the primary mixin to a **must**, we can then deprecate silent mode on a per component basis (if we want to) and help migrate our users to primary mixin (much like we did when we went from origami image service v1 to v2).

Then when we decide to remove silent mode from all the components, that would be a major cascade which should not require any source code changes for our users (as they already use primary mixin) and we can see how complex doing the simplest cascade actually is. Hopefully tools such as renovate and dependabot help out with it.

Author: 👍 I'm going to update the proposal to reflect that, making the existing proposal an alternative, so we can approve as a team and merge

## work required

- Update the v2 component spec draft to make primary mixins a `must` instead of a `should`, remove the silent mode variable requirement entirely.
- Update the `create-origami-component` boilerplate.
- Search `origami-website` site and `origami-registry-ui` to update any other documentation.
- Update `origmai-build-tools` to verify the existence of the primary mixin.
- Update `origami-build-service` to use the primary mixin instead of the silent mode variable.
- Update all components silent mode variable SassDoc to document silent mode, since the global docs have been removed, and note that it is deprecated with `@deprecated`.
```
/// Set to true to output all o-example CSS.
/// @deprecated Use the primary mixin to output component CSS instead.
/// @see {mixin} oExample
/// @type Bool
```

> - Remove the silent mode variable from every component for its spec v2 major release, update its migration guide to recommend the primary mixin instead. All Origami maintained components have a primary mixin already but there may be instances of components which need to add one. At its simplest this involves wrapping all the component's Sass in a single mixin of the same name as the component.

Reviewer: This wouldn't be a part of the origami 2.0 release, but would be in another cascade of it's own
